Welcome back.
Now that you know how you can drag and drop all of your you eye elements onto your form or onto your
window and you whine it's time to check out how we can interact with those UI in the months and that
is done by signals and slots or with signals and slots.
So let's check out what those signals and slots are.
Well generally the problem is we want to be able to react to user input somehow.
So if the user presses a button or if there's some text we want to be able to interact with it.
We're at least react to that user input.
And when a button is clicked show another item for example so somebody presses something then another
screen pops up or a different tab or something like that and how we do that in cute is we do that with
signals and slots.
And what exactly does that mean.
So what are those signals and slots that you're talking about a..
All right so signals and slots are two different elements which pretty much allow us to interact.
So the signals are sent out by each element.
So for example a button can send its own signal can send a signal.
I was pressed or I was clicked or I was hovered over or something like that.
And in this example if somebody clicked the button then we could do something.
But what we do and what we change let's say in another object is done with slots.
So each element can receive signals via a slot.
So it's pretty much like a receiver and it's waiting for this information.
So you can imagine a button is pressed.
So the signals send out and then somewhere is the receiver who waits for this particular signal and
then it interacts with it or it activates some functionality.
So it's done via a slot.
In this case for example a label has the slot hide which we can hide it with.
So for example if a button is pressed then we could hide a label or if a button is pressed we could
hide a different object on our UI.
So pretty much any UI element can be hidden.
A word can be shown.
So these are the two general methods that we can pretty much use.
So these slots are also Methot so we can call them via Python code but we can also do that in our cute
creator.
So the button is for example the signal clicked preste or the other element is the slot and can be hidden
or can be shown so it can hide or Sjoerd.
So just for user another representation of this.
And if a user clicks then we for example hide the other element as simple as that or we can even hide
elements at the beginning of our UI creation.
So whenever the UI is created we could say okay hide this particular element and then when we press
a button or click a button that we will show this element.
So now we took a look at the principle and let's take a look at this in practice where you can actually
see how this is done in the cube creator.
And later we will see how this is done in code.
So enjoy this video.
Finally some interaction with the UI.
Ant Yeah thats pretty much the basis of any good graphical user interface program right.
So see you there.